---
author: Mark Lee
date: 2015-11-15 22:00
lang: en

category: "is-usc-worth-50000"
hook: "Will the Trojan Family crumble without the Greek System?"
hook_image_name: "greek.png"
---

Hi.  My name is Mark Lee.  I am a junior double majoring in business administration and psychology.

I am faithful, scholarly, skillful, courageous, and ambitious.  I am a Trojan.

Apparently these are the adjectives that the esteemed University of Southern California wants us to be.  

When I was sitting with my orientation group my freshman year, I thought this was the cheesiest shit 

I’ve ever heard.  Trojan Family blah blah.  Yeah, every college will say that they’re a family.  What makes 

USC so gotdamn special?  Oh.  Five more adjectives.  Great.  Pile ‘em on.  It’s not like I was paying 

attention anyways.

Almost 3 years later, I am proud to say that I really am a Trojan.  It’s been a tough battle.  Since I came to 

USC, I’ve developed myself as a person more than I have ever done in my life.  USC was where it 

happened and why it happened.

When I was a senior in high school, my choices came down to a Trustee scholarship (full tuition) at USC 

and a scholarship funded, almost-full ride at the University of Texas at Austin.  These are both equally 

fantastic schools.  So fantastic that my twin sister chose UT, and I chose USC.   My sister chose UT 

because, for my community, this was the safe choice.  Everyone knew that if you went to UT’s business 

school, especially their honors program, you would get a job at any company you wanted within Texas 

and the region.   If you graduated from UT with good grades, you would pretty much get a job at any 

company within a 750 mile radius.

For my sister, this was ideal.  She was always the “good” kid.  She knew that she wanted to be 

successful.  She knew that she wanted to have a stable and successful lifestyle.  She understood the 

problems that my parents had gone through: financial insecurity, prejudice, etc.  My parents, like many 

immigrant parents, achieved the American Dream with the odds stacked against them. I owe them 

everything.

But the problem arises when the American Dream isn’t good enough.  It took me too long to realize that, 

hey, maybe my parents are humans too, and they’ve fought their way to the top to provide their idea of 

what the “best” is. When my parents were growing up, they grew up poor in Taiwan.  They understood a 

rich cultural heritage where in Communist China, any dissent would lead to widespread persecution and 

potentially death. It took me too long to realize that my parents were afraid that if I were to “step out of 

line” or cause any waves whatsoever, that might be reciprocated literally with death.  My grandparents 

fled mainland China with my parents when they were children (Mama Lee born in Hong Kong, Papa Lee 

born in rural Fu Shan).

I think Asian people, especially, value education because they understand that it’s a privilege.  I see 

American youth these days thinking, “Damn. School is so lame. I’m gonna cut class.”  And that’s OK.  I 

understand.  I still cut class sometimes (but only when I’m so tired that I know I’m not going to learn 

anything).  But Asian people are a whole other breed.  At least in China, the Cultural Revolution was a 

real thing.  Mao Zedong went around killing anyone who was educated or smart because they might 

rebel against him. That’s the power of education.  Education is so powerful that Mao Zedong will try to 

assassinate you.

So my parents, like many immigrant parents, understood that education is one of the keys to eventual 

“success.”  The problem arises in how our parents define the term “success.”  For them, it meant the 

American Dream.  It meant being able to be financially stable and being able to raise a family without 

any worries that the government might try to kill you for being smart.  That’s why America is great.  

America is a culture that 1. welcomes and celebrates immigrants, and 2. fosters educational and 

intellectual growth (despite how racist some people may be and how shitty our education system is).  At 

the very least, we were founded on these principles, and I think that counts for something.

But success in the current day and age (at least in America) is not about JUST financial security and not 

being assassinated by Mao Zedong.  Quite simply, the world is a different place than it was 50 years ago, 

and our parents have a difficult time realizing this.  Which makes sense because they grew up in a 

different world and this was the reality of their lives.

Our parents aren’t stupid because they don’t share the same ideas of “success” that we do.  Every 

person is different and their context was different.  We just have to do our best to understand where 

(and when) they’re coming from.

So sorry for the long ramblings, but how does all of this relate to USC?

So my parents, valuing education as the end-all-be-all of success, made sure I got a good education.  I 

attended Chinese school every Sunday.  I dreaded every moment of it when I was young, but now that 

I’m older, I really appreciate it.  I can speak moderately OK conversational Chinese, which is a huge 

advantage on my resume or whatever.  I wish I knew Chinese better, and that’s something I’m working 

on.  There really isn’t a price you can put on knowing another language because it literally opens up 

access to another part of the world.  The opportunities afforded from just knowing how other people 

speak is phenomenal.

I learned this hands on when I took an internship through USC through the Global Leadership Program, a 

program I literally owe everything to and I will always love to the end of time.  This program takes the 

best and brightest freshman business majors to China for spring break to understand how to do global 

business.  The rest of the class is mainly guest speakers, composed of all Trojans who are killing the 

game: industry leaders, CEO’s, social entrepreneurs, Trojans who have overcome great adversity, etc.  I 

hope to one day be a guest speaker in this class.  While in China for an internship in the summer (set up 

through USC), my knowledge of the Chinese language allowed my friends and me to navigate China, 

grab taxis, haggle with Chinese people, and order food.  Without my language skills, we might have 

literally starved (OK, unlikely but…).  We definitely would not have had as good of a time without me 

being able to speak to other people.  The power of communication is essential to making true 

connections with others.  I can’t even tell you how many Chinese locals I made friends with.  I got this 

unique experience simply because my parents forced me into Chinese school.  I made friends with every 

taxi driver, bartender, “ayi,” and homeless man I met.

But even without my Chinese speaking skills, we still would have had a good time. Why?  Because USC is 

the most international university in the world. USC continues to maintain phenomenal relationships 

with other universities and alumni worldwide, especially in Asia.  Why do you think there are so many 

Chinese people on campus?  As a freshman, I thought the “Trojan Family” was just another marketing 

ploy to get me to come to USC.  I thought that every university thinks of itself as a family.  But not like 

USC.  The bond between Trojans is unreal and unparalleled because it is so international.  Some of the 

best times I had in China involved just wearing a USC shirt around on the street.  Every once in a while, 

someone would stop me and shout, “Fight on!”   I would always be like, “What are you doing here?!  

What in the world?!”   And that’s exactly what it was.  What in the world.  Trojans are everywhere in the 

world, which means literally wherever you go in life, you will always have a friend and family there with 

you.  All you have to do is reach out to that local network.  My friends and I met up with the Shanghai 

Alumni Society, which was just the most hospitable group of people ever.  It didn’t hurt that they paid 

for a bar tab for us at a networking event.  They were so nice that we all volunteered to help with the 

Shanghai SCendoff, a USC tradition where we invite incoming freshmen to learn about their school and 

get pumped for coming to USC.  We didn’t have to volunteer there, but we felt the reality of the Trojan 

Family and were intrinsically compelled to give back to the school that gave us everything.

So the Trojan Family is REAL.  It’s extremely real, and I think that’s USC’s greatest competitive 

advantage.

Even when I came back from China, I (retroactively) realized that the Trojan Family has always been here 

for me domestically too.  I have made the best friends since I’ve been here at USC.  (Dare I say it) even 

better than the friends I have at home because the students here are all on the same boat with you.  

USC students are naturally ambitious and understand what it means to go to an elite school but still 

have fun along the way.  My friends from back at home, like my best friend and my other best friend (my 

sister) chose the safe, secure option.  Going to USC involves risk of course.  That’s why this question is 

even being posed.  It’s really not “Is USC worth the price?” but “Is USC worth the risk?”

With high risk comes high rewards.  The rewards at USC couldn’t be better.  People point to the 

fraternity scene and sometimes the difficulties that people there.  Sure.  High risk.  But drinking in 

general is always high risk.  As long as you have the right mindset entering college, you will reap the high 

rewards and benefits. 

Moving to California, getting out of your comfort zone (and more importantly, expanding your comfort 

zone) is risky.  Sure.  But it’s necessary.  That’s something your classrooms won’t teach you at other 

places.  That’s why USC forces us to be uncomfortable, to refuse us to be complacent.  They foster us to 

be the next leaders of change. They want us to become people who will challenge the way we think 

about things in order to expand our comfort zones.  That’s why we’re the number one destination for 

international students.  President Nikias wants us to interact and feel uncomfortable with people from 

all over the world.  We build our Trojan Family this way: by adopting new members into our family, no 

matter how uncomfortable they make us feel because we recognize that they bring something to the 

table.

I’m reminded of my favorite Mark Twain quote: “Don’t let schooling interfere with your education.”

All of the things I’ve described are things you can’t get in the classroom.  That’s why USC is worth the 

price (and more importantly, the risk).  There’s more to college than what you get from an education 

(which is why an online education will never compare to an actual college experience).  College teaches 

you HOW to think and HOW to view the world, not just WHAT to think and just simply vocational skills 

that will get you a job.

So back to this idea of the five traits of a Trojan.  What does USC want us to be?  For me, personally, I 

was always SCHOLARLY and SKILLFUL.  Duh.  How else would I have gotten into college?  But attending 

USC and taking the leap of faith is courageous.   That’s what I think of when I see the word “FAITHFUL.”  

We’re not necessarily faithful religiously, but we believe in what we’re doing.  We believe in ourselves 

and our peers.  We FIGHT ON every day because we are faithful in each other.  We are COURAGEOUS in 

taking chances and opportunities.  We aren’t afraid to blaze the trail for others.  We are AMBITIOUS in 

pursuing these goals.  That’s why we’re the leaders in so many aspects of our university life.  Because 

we’re not afraid to tackle life’s biggest challenges, no matter how big they may seem.  We’re warriors by 

blood.  It’s literally our mascot.  We are Trojans.  We are SC.